from Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes or
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
two Oh two recorded live
Tuesday, February 9th, 2010. Support for Hanselman
it's is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Readify senior consultant.
Take them ADI. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. We've just had our
200th episode and now to
hit off the next 200,
I'm sitting here today with
Tatum, ADI from Australia. He's
actually a senior consultant at
ratify and he's currently sleeping
on my couch. How are
you, sir? Good and so
wonderful couch. It is quite
lovely. Thank you. So you've,
you've been working on some
stuff with your, with your
partner, Damon, Damien Edwards, right?
And he just came to
work for Microsoft. Actually, we
split up the web duo.
He's come to Microsoft and
I'm having to hold the
Fort back down in Australia.
Okay. But partners in crime
that you guys are, you
put together an interesting project
and it's called web forums
MVP, at least as, as,
as of the time of
this recording, although maybe it
might be called something else
some other day. But when
I hear the name MVP,
I immediately think about the
Microsoft I'm, you know, most
valuable professional, but this is
about the pattern. What is
the difference between MVP and
MVC MVC? If we think
about in a websites. So
sticking with asp.net is that
a sort of discussion area
is really about the controller
getting the actual, the request
up front. So it goes
to the controller, it can
make a decision. And then
it ultimately delegates to the
view. MVP kind of flips
that a little bit. So
it's model view, presenter. The
view has a little bit
of intelligence to it. So
we'd actually will have things
like buttons and events and
whatever else. And you'll hit
that first. The presented knows
how to react to that,
build the relevant information and
get that back down to
the view. Okay. So an
MVC, there's a, there's a
route that's kind of ignored.
It's almost like MVC are@leastinthecontextofasp.net,
where that route takes the
incoming URL and a miracle
happens. And the controller gets
involved. What happens in MVP
from the point of the
URL is requested and then
something happens. So an MVP
in an asp.net sense, your
view will be something like
the ASP X page. And
the request will go to
that SPX page. You might
have a button click or
something like that, fires the
present or react to that.
And then it goes back
to the view before it
goes out to the response.
So the presenter's kind of
involved in the middle of
the request, whereas the control
was involved up front is
the presenter a kind of
a router of its own.
In some ways you could
go and change out the
view through a presented, but
really it's about taking the
view that's there and just
putting displaying the right panels,
setting the right States and
various things, Help me get
the difference between a view
and a presenter, a little
more separate, because I think
that some people maybe who
myself and maybe people who
don't speak English might think
that view and presenter are
kind of the same thing.
So a view is more
about the rendering. So this
is the market we have,
and this is how it
sits. We want that one
to be enabled this one
to be disabled. The presenter
is what makes those decisions.
So when they click this
button, I need to go
back to the database, save
this record, and then I
need to display some information
there. So it has the
intelligence and that's also the
area that, where we want
to have as much of
our code as possible so
that we can unit test
it. But given what you
just said, couldn't you art
couldn't one argue that we
already have model view presenter
in web forms by itself
that the ASP X page
is the view and the
presenters, the code behind It
is very close to that,
but it's not a very
clean implementation of it. And
it's very easy to blow
those lines and get them
mixed up a little bit.
And that's where you get
into these really spaghetti, ugly
web forms sites. And do
you think that that's one
of the reasons why a
lot of people will kind
of in the MVC camp,
malign, MVP as a concept
or malign web forums rather?
Yeah. So One of the
things that I really like
about MVC coming along is
that it's not only giving
people a new framework to
work with, but suddenly there's
a whole set of.net developers
that have started to care
about things like architectures in
jQuery and CSS. And there's
all this hidden training that's
come along the way. And
for a lot of people
we've been working on web
forms before that. And I
know I was certainly one
of those people originally where
you could fall into that
spaghetti and get a bit
of a mess. So MVC
was the nice refresh. And
do you think that MVC
kind of makes people happy
because of its its rigidity
it's, it's focused on separation
of concerns and that people
with a newly renewed focus
of separation of concerns, then
look back at the web
forms that they did before.
And they said, wow, it
was all just kind of
mushed together. Sure. And MVC
is very much about you
put this here and then
you put that there and
then this here, and you've
got that separation of concerns
and it's very much convention
as well. Whereas web forms,
if you want to get
that nice architecture, you've really
got to work for it
a little bit. It doesn't
have anywhere near that rigidity
at all. So is there
a w by creating a
project on top of web
forms by enhancing web forms
with web form, what is,
what you're calling web forms,
MVP or web forms plus
plus are, you're making a
statement about web forms, right?
Just by virtue of the
existence of the project, that,
what are you saying? Are
you saying that it is
deficient in some way that
web forms has dropped the
ball and you're picking it
up? Or what, what are
you, what is your project
saying by its existence? Well,
You'll see that there's value
in web forms. The same
as there's obviously value in
NVC. It really depends on
what do you want to
work with? And what's the
platform that's right for you
with web forms existing, we
felt that we could improve
upon it and help out
with these architectures, put some
of the base framework in
place that allow you to
do clean web forms, development,
and testability. So we're not
trying to make a statement
of whether you should use
MVC or web forms, but
if you are using web
forms, it'd be better. If
you used web forms, MVP,
we think it'll give you
a better project. It will
make you a better web
forms, developer, Which are making
a step statement that you
think there's value in and
web forms. Definitely. I mean,
and I'm not trying by,
by, by the being the
interviewer, I'm not trying to
pick a side really, other
than the side of what
I always pick, which is
use the framework that makes
you happy. But I think
there's a lot of people
arguing about MVC versus web
forums, who some people have
just insisted. You should simply
abandon web forums. It's a
useless thing. And, and, you
know, you're a guy I
respect in the community. So
I feel like there's kind
of a vote of confidence
by the fact that you're
investing in platforms. There's obviously
all the business decisions around.
Do you have an existing
project? You don't need to
go and rewrite that in
MVC of night, but even
a lot of the new
projects there certainly is that
bit of a dissing of
web form saying we're not
going to use that. And
I find that each of
them do definitely have their
place. I've used both of
them on recent projects. Greenfield's
engagement starting from scratch of
saying, in this case here,
web forms is going to
work better because of the
team or because of what
we had to produce, or
some of the controls that
are available existing code. We
had not necessarily legacy code,
but just stuff we wanna
integrate with, or there's MVC,
where that was particularly suited
to some sort of framework
or architectural Working in that
sense. Have you made a
lot of hybrid applications? I've
always been a big proponent
of, you might have like
the backend administrative section and
web forms and some certain
things on the front end,
or you might mix and
match on a URL by
URL basis, whether you want
web forums or MVC. Yep.
Definitely the administration. Site's a
good example that actually done
that a little bit, sort
of in reverse of where
we had a MVC based
site. And then for a
really quick administration system, we
just dropped a dynamic data
wrapping, which is web forms
based and off we went.
And that came as a
really simple access plan. Okay.
So let's, let's dig in
a little detail here. So
we, I think we all
who are listening understand generally
how, how web forms works
and, you know, a quick
distinction to explain kind of
the difference between the MVC
and web forms. Web forms
is a, is a control
abstraction on top of HTML
and HTTP. And with that
control abstraction, you of course
get the ability to have
controls with those controls come
their behavior, their rendering, you
know, the logic incorporated within
those controls. And you also
get an eventing model, which
is a stateful inventing model
over a stateless API, which
is HTTP. What is web
forms, MVP as a project,
bring on top of that.
We put in a lot
of the base classes and
things like that that you'd
want to use to apply
a nice implementation of an
MVP based architecture to web
forms. So it's not hard
to do, but it's a
little fiddly to go and
get all the right stuff
and all the right places
to give you that clean
architecture. So that's what we've
gone. And So what is
it exactly? Is it a
series of libraries? Is it
a new project type? Walk
me through a hello world
scenario in an M web
forms, MVP world. So the
first thing we have is
there is a DLL we
ship, which is just a
single DLL. So you'd add
that as a reference to
your project. You'd have a,
you start off with say
a web application project like
you would normally do with
web ports. Then what you
do is build out the
various parts of your website
as user controls. So one
of the really nice things
about web forms and that
control abstraction is not necessarily,
there's the usual argument of
saying, Oh, I can drop
on this really big, fancy
data grid. I don't actually
find that the best part.
What I really like is
the ability to composite pages.
So you've got something like
a really complex eCommerce site
and you got menus down
the side that had dynamic
and carts and the top
and all that stuff. You
can build each of those
sections of your pages as
controls with web forms, MVP,
you inherit each of those
from an MVP user control.
You define a model that
it uses and that's a
presentation model. And you put
an attribute on the code
behind that user control, which
says what type of presenter
to use. And at that
point there, you've got the
architecture working. So you go
off and create a class
for the presenter as a
base class you're inherit from,
and it'll wire all the
rest of it up. Okay.
So let's say, I want
to have, if I, if
I can help me out
here, we'll do an, we'll
do an on the fly
example. Let's see, I've got
my application. I want to
add a ticker to it.
And a ticker is something
who's kind of logic and
everything would be kind of
orthogonal. I would make the,
make a user control. Describe
what I want that ticker
to look like. And I
could use CSS or dibs,
or I could use tables
or whatever that, that has
a, a code behind with
it. So that's, We have
a code behind that would
normally inherit just from user
control, right? You would change
that to inherit from MVP
user control of type model.
So the same as when
you do a view in
MVC, have a strongly typed
model. That's what we've got
for web forms now as
well. So you're doing MVP
user control of ticker model.
He put an attribute on
it, present a binding type
of ticket presenter. That's the
control done off you go
create new class, call it
ticket presenter inherit from presenter
of ticker model. At that
point there, you've got a
environment which feels very familiar
to coding and a page
behind. So you've got a
load event that you can
subscribe to. You can push
information into the model and
use it. You've also got
support for things like inversion
of control, as you can
go and pull in all
your repositories and stuff like
that, if you will. Okay.
So let me make sure
I understand this. I've got
my, my ASC X page.
I've got my ASC X
ASX dot VB or dot
CS that is now derived
from a new base class.
And that's the view. And
that's my view. And do
I have a lot of
code in that code behind?
No, a lot of the
sites we've been using this
on, we literally don't have
any code in that code
behind it all. So the
way we then get information
out actually rendered onto the
page is we use binding
syntax in the market. So
very similar, the web forms,
a view engine in NVC,
you can go out and
in your markup use angle
bracket percent equals model.org. We
also support angle bracket percent
hash model dot. What that
allows you to do is
say, you've got a repeater
or something like that to
list out each vertical or
items. You can go in
the market, ASP repeater data
source equals angle, bracket percent
hash model dot ticket items.
So that right. Okay. And
it'll automatically trigger the binding
at the right point in
life cycle so that your
repeater goes and renders all
that content out. And that's
the kind of sloppy code
I'd shove in a winner
in a load event. Yeah.
So normally you'd get the
load, you'd load it somehow.
And then you can repeat
a one.data source equals something
repeated.data binds. So we get
rid of all that. So
your markup looks very much
like a, almost like a
templating language. So it's still
web forms. You still use
controls, but it's a bit
more template style, all of
your logics back in the
presenters. Okay. So I've got
nothing in my code behind
I've associated my view and
my presenter using the, the
template style, you know, something
of type, explain to me
again, what that looks like.
The view derives from MVP
view, a user control of
type take your model in
this case. And where is
the presenter? The presented class
is an attribute that you
put onto the user control.
So you put a presented
binding attribute until the type
of presenter you want it
to create. And when it
hits that user control, it'll
go and find that attribute
and go on. So the
view and the presenter are
associated only by this attribute.
Correct. Now that's interesting. So
that, that must have been
an interesting design discussion that
you could have done it
as an attribute. You could
have, if you had multiple
inheritance, you could have done
it like that. You probably
could have passed it in
a type type of T
comma of an another, have
another type T one and
T two. You probably also
could have put together some
kind of a mapping in
the global ASX, because ultimately
what you're trying to do
is tunnel two types into
this system. Why did you
choose to derive one and
include the presenter while the
other one included them all?
So the first thing you
pick up on there is
the idea that we could
have put in a whole
bunch of places. And we
do actually allow that, so
that the way that it
finds, which presented to use
for review call a presented
discovery strategy, and you can
completely replace how that works.
Oh. So if you don't
like the posted notes, style
of attributes on the class,
Put it wherever you want.
You can go and store
them in SQL database, if
you want. Probably not the
best plan, but you could
share the reason we did
it through attributes. Well, first
of all, the reason that
the model is there as
a generic type argument is
so that we get all
the nice IntelliSense support actually
in the view markups. So
you go model dot Pitt
shows up. We need inheritance
to do that. And that
makes sense because it's part
of the views contract, what
data it requires in the
model, the presenter though, we,
there are some other scenarios
that we wanted to support
around. You can actually go
move that attribute off to
page and say, anytime you
find one of these user
controls, use that presenter for,
so then putting that user
control on different pages could
have different presenters wide up
to them. And we also
support things like composite views
and shared presenters, this other
architectures. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman from another parallel universe,
got to tell you about
some of our things our
sponsors are doing. They make
this free podcast possible. If
you're developing a new line
of business application, you've probably
tried the latest version of
server light. Now you can
get even better results by
combining the functionality and server
Lite for beta, with some
of the richness or the
third party controls from our
friends at Tellerik. They're the
first vendors to offer native
support for the server Lite
for beta and their rad
controls. They've got a new
server Lite for CTP suite
of these controls. They let
you tap into the frameworks,
great potential. You've got native,
right mouse click and all
the new features, the server
line there's 38 controls that
give you all these features.
You can start building those
compelling line of business applications
right away. I encourage you
to check those products out
at tellerik.com/silverlight and, you know,
thank Tellerik for supporting Don
and rock supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page
at facebook.com/tellerik. Now back to
the show. So that gives
me in my mind, at
least I think I can
understand the kind of standard
page load scenario, that initial
load it, you you've tie-dyed
up, you know, what could
be potentially a mess and
page load. What about the
post-bac model? What about the
event model? There could be
the same multiple buttons on
a combo box in this
ticker, all of which could
have events behind them or
multiple events. How does that
get handled? So you would
have the controls as say,
ASP button controls or whatever
you want in your markup.
You would subscribe to the
events in the market. And
then this is one point
where you do have a
little bit of code behind
in the view, but all
you do is catch that
event and proxy it back
up to the presenter. So
on the view, what you
then do is same as
you're already inheriting from MVP
user control of ticket model,
you then implement an eye
tick of view, which describes
what events your view is
going to raise back to
the presenter. And that's a
grand total of like four
lines of code. And where
does that interface come from?
You, you have to create
that You would write that
yourself and the value of
writing it yourself is that,
that means you can mock
the view because the models
are concrete class, it's dumb.
It's just a bunch of
properties. That's easy. The presenter,
you don't have any dependencies
on it. They're all in
version control, whatever you want
to do, the view is
the bit that you need
to break out for testing.
So having a view interface
allows you to completely mock
all the interactions that use
a control for the purpose
of testing the presenter. Okay.
So expand on that a
little bit, because you know,
web forums, the one thing
that people complain about is
that they can't test it.
What are we testing and
what are we not testing?
What parts of the system
go untested? And is that,
or is that not okay.
Okay. So the only part
of your code that you
wouldn't test is in the
code behind files, those event
proxies. So your markup is
basically markup in pretty much
any platform in the world.
You don't really the mockup
output and that's fairly clean
and obvious Unless you use
selenium or something like that.
Yeah. Functional Testing was sent
on top of the Cheshire
in a unit testing, since
we've moved all of the
unit testable code into the
presenter, which is basically all
of the logic. So that's
Everything in the code behind,
or what I've previously thought
about as the code behind
is just one line events
and one line wiring up
of approximating, rather of those
events kind of up the
chain And coding in the
presenter. Isn't really that much
different from an initial experience,
point of view. So it's
very different in the architectural
achieves, but you can still
go request dot query, string,
response dot headers, all those
are accessible, and that uses
the system dot web dot
abstractions namespace, the same as
MVC does. So that's all
unit testable and lockable as
well. So are you saying
that if I was going
to go poking around from
the code behind in query
string or form that I'm
really using an abstract Title
from your presented? Yes, Because
that's where my base class
now over in the presenter
from the presenter, not from
MV MVP user, Well, you
don't have any code in
there other than just your
event proxy, so you wouldn't
be doing it. Okay. So
what about more complex scenarios?
I know that in the
web, a lot of the
web forms applications that I've
written, I'll find myself catching
certain things in events, and
then having to go and
check if not, as post-bac
and you know, the next
thing, you know, what was
a nice, simple page load
and a couple of events
has turned into quite a
little state. So the first
thing you really need to
get is the load event.
Isn't the place where I
really should be working. Just
moving a lot of your
code back to the nit
event gets around 95% of
those is not post-bac problems.
Why is that view state
starts tracking after a net.
So if you say you
want to have a dropdown
list and you want to
populate it with a list
of countries, if you do
that in the load event,
you go and add them
all in the person chooses
something. When the page loads
up again, you're going to
clear out that list and
add all the countries. And
again, you've lost their selection.
So that's why you wrap
it in the is not
post-bacc. The other problem with
that approach is that you've
actually stored the information twice.
It's once in your HTML.
And once in your view
state, if we move that
code back to a net,
the net event fires first,
you populate the contents to
the dropdown list and then
view state starts tracking. So
anything past this point is
where we'll go and interview
state the user's selection and
the post-bacc will then get
pushed into the control. So
you selected United States of America, and then
the event will fire. They
click the button or whatever.
So at that point they're
yes. On every time a
page is executing on your
server, you're populating that combo
box, but that's pretty cheap.
Or you can fix that
with caching or whatever, but
you're not storing it redundantly
in view state, and you
avoid a Lowe's is not
postbac checks. So it's a
really good blog post about
that, which Dave Reed actually
put up influence loop, Google,
just view, state, infinite loop
on being, and you'll find
all the information about how
that works. It was about
three or four page article.
Do you find the use
for page load ever? Really?
I mean, is that just
what's what's what good is
it then? It's ironic that
it's the place that you
end up when you hit
up seven, but what do
you do with it? Not
a lot go back to
or catch click events. So
it's, it's, it's interesting. I'm
hearing kind of like the
defaults that historically web forms
have given us don't enable
best practices, Not at all.
And the templates really do
need to get a bit
of refresh. One of the
things we'd like to do
with web forms in VP
is another step is to
actually drop a series of
our own project templates that
go and clean up a
bunch of that stuff. As
a first step. There's another
project on code Plex, which
are XHTML templates. They do
a little bit more than
just exceptional compliance. So what
it is is when your
fall new web application project,
you'll get one where the
web conflict's set up properly
and you've got the right
master pages, the right doc
types and things on it.
It also goes and cleans
up a few of those
ugly points in the templates.
So it basically sets you
up for success around X
H, Right. And we'd like
to take those and extend
it a little bit further
again, so that things like
when you create a new
page, you don't have a
page load handler there by
default because you shouldn't be
using it. Okay. And I
remember a, You know, there's
the thing about web forums
is there's the, do you
choose to respond to an
event via an actual event,
or do you choose to
do it via an override?
Do you have any opinions
about that In using the
library or with web forms,
MVP you'd be subscribing from
the presenter. So in that
sense you would be subscribing
to an event. Okay. Sometimes
though I do find myself
from having to write code
in master pages or something
like that. And in those
cases, they're all always gone
subscribed to the event rather
than the override. It's just
a lot more explicit and
less blackout. So speaking of
black arts, how, how trusted
is this? I mean, how
much, what have you actually
done with this? Is this
just a spike that you
kind of been screwing around
with? Or is this something
that you've actually put into
production? This is grown out
of several of the projects
that I've worked on as
a consultant with Damien Edwards,
who was largely the one
that started the framework. And
then on recent projects, we
started working together on it.
And one of the main
ones is actually the largest
retail eCommerce site in Australia.
And it's pushing several million
page views a day through
this framework at the moment
across quite a large server
farm. So out of that,
we've gone and fixed all
the memory leaks and gone
and done all the performance
fixes and all that sort
of fun. The next one
is actually being picked up
on us and Australian government
projects. So they're pretty confident
to adopt it themselves. It's
all open source. It's up
on code Plex. It's licensed
on MSPL and it's pretty
stable so far. How complicated
is it? It's really not
that complicated. There's about 25
classes all up. They're all
pretty small. A lot of
it's just, you know, faces
the right amount of wiring.
There are some crazy parts
if you dig through the
code, but those are for
more advanced things like composite
views and shared presenters, which
aren't, you know, what use
case. Okay, well, let's, let's
get into those though, because
are those things that I
can, you know, I can
do easily in web forums
and you just needed to
support them or these advanced
scenarios that really are only
possible with forms MVP. So
There's two real scenarios that
are specific to web forms,
MVP that just aren't supported
in web forms. The first
one is messaging. So one
of the big advantages that
I find about web forms
is your ability to composite
the page. So I was
talking about, let's say, you've
got an eCommerce site you're
building. So this is obviously
a real world example of
running into. You've got a
product page now in the
sidebar, you've got your menu
that sits off somewhere else
in your master page, you've
got all your product details
showing in the main section
of the site and somebody
decided, all right, well, we
want to show a little
widget in the sidebar that's
related products or a bunch
of links. How do you
get the information between those
two places? This is where
you master page starts to
get a bit messy and
you own try and find
properties setters of around the
owning page and stuff. And
that's where web forms gets
through. Yeah. I mean, people
shove things into session. They
shove things into items, dot
context and hope that it'll
stick around. They worry about
what order things actually run
in it's it's chaos. And
this is where the secret
page life cycle just turns
into a nightmare. So the
way we've solved that is
you would build two user
controls for that. You'd obviously
have your main product details,
and then you'd have your
related products, widget that would
both be MVP, user controls,
and that each have their
own presented. Now say the
product details, presenter, it's going
to load the product from
the database, push the information
to the model. He can
also publish that as a
message. So it goes onto
a message bus separately. We
have our related products, presenter.
It's going to subscribe to
a message of type product.
So it's all strongly typed.
And when that message turns
up on the message bus,
it'll get a copy of
it. So he can say,
Oh, somewhere else on this
page, this product is getting
rendered. And this has all
the information I need about
that product to render this
little widget and all of
the life cycle that's managed
for you. So if you
subscribe first published, lighter, published
first subscribed, lighter, any of
those sermons, it doesn't matter.
You'll always get the message.
And how does that work?
Because I know I've had
all sorts of trouble juggling
the order in which things
happen and where they live.
And if I am, if
I'm am I in pre-render
or render, if you, even,
if you pick up a
control and move it elsewhere
on the page, it could
change the order in which
things happen. We maintain a
list of the subscriptions and
also list of all the
messages that have been published.
So if you subscribe to
a message of Taipei and
then you publish one of
the, and then somebody else
comes along subscribes to be,
we'll get a hold on.
We know that there's a
pending message there for Pete.
Here's a copy of it.
The other thing we do
is we have a callback
of never received. So if
you go and subscribe to
a message of type product
for say you related widget,
and that message never comes,
we'll actually also give you
another call back. So you
can go and throw an
exception or display some different
UI or whatever you want
to do in that case
in any time before pre-render,
we manage all of that
lifecycle at pre-render. We close
the message pass. We send
out all those callbacks, have
you subscribed to that? You
didn't get it. Just letting
you know. So you then
got enough time to react
before render When I'm writing
things like this. Am I
thinking about the page life
cycle anymore? I mean, I'm
kind of hearing that. I
think about it a lot
less, if at all. No,
there's basically one entry point
to your presenter, which is
just the ANet. And then
from there, each of the
presenters are all fairly independent.
They don't need to know
what other presenters are on
the page. Other than perhaps
an implicit contract that whenever
I have this related products
widget, I need to have
this other product control on
the page too, to get
the right information there. But
that's pretty easy contract to
manage. Other than that, they
all just act in their
own time, push stuff out
to the message person. It
appears when it needs to.
Can you get into scenarios
where there's complex dependencies, where
like, what happens if two
controls are both loading a
list of products and we
don't want to go to
the database twice? Well, I
just hit on it in
rendering a page, unless you
explicitly going out and doing
asynchronous tasks, then it's all
running in a synchronous order
anyway. So one of them
will load at first and
you really need to manage
that through caching. Okay. So
that's really up to you
and your model to not
hit it twice, right? That
does lead into though, if
you do want to get
into, if you've got expensive
loads and you don't want
to do them twice and
things like that, there's obviously
occasion, but there's also a
sync tasks. So say you're
calling out to a web
service and you don't want
to block the rendering thread
for that whole time where
you wait for it to
respond. Web forms already has
support for asynchronous page tasks
built into it, but we've
brought that up through the
web forms, MVP framework as
well. So that from your
presenter, you can lodge asynchronous
tasks and get callbacks when
they completed the of pipe
and all that life cycle.
Now, what if I want
to start using a bunch
of JavaScript and jQuery and
an Ajax type stuff? Am
I going to go and
use jQuery and MooTools and
that kind of stuff, or
am I going to use
the Microsoft Ajax controls Really
independent of where your MVC
web forms, web forms, MVP
or anything really because you've,
you should have that nice
separation. On the last major
project, we use this on
the eCommerce site, we chose
to use the Microsoft Ajax
libraries and the jQuery libraries
because Microsoft Ajax gave us
a really nice script floater,
which makes it really easy
from different pages and master
pages and things to represent
all the scripts we need,
push them out, combined at
runtime, things like that. And
a really nice way of
calling web services. jQuery obviously
gives us a really nice
platform for doing progressive enhancement
on the client. One of
the things we had on
this site was that up
in the header, it had
like six items in cart.
And if you clicked that
it would slide down the
cart, like a bit of
you, I would just slide
down over the page and
show the number, what was
actually in your cart so
that they would use jQuery
to attach to the link,
because normally it's just a
hyperlink goes to the cart
page. So if you don't
have JavaScript, you go to
the cat page. If you
click it with JavaScript, jQuery
will catch that slide down
the interface. And we'd use
the Microsoft Ajax libraries to
do a web service call
to find out what was
actually in Yukon. So we
didn't need to embed that
information in the page. That's
a really nice example of,
of, like you said, progressive
enhancement. We had full support
for non JavaScript along the
way. And it really wasn't
that hard to do gives
you that nice experience. So
if I click on the
items and cart link, that
takes me to the cart
dot ASP X page. But
if I've got JavaScript, I'm
going to get a nice,
you know, local example of
that. What did that web
service call to get the
list of things in the
car? Did it call it
an ASM X page or
did it, Yeah, we just
had an Asics that was
then just published through the
Microsoft Ajax script. Loader has
really nice services node. Does
the JavaScript proxy really easy
to call clients side and,
and even with the web
forms, MVP framework, we actually
have full support for web
services, HTP, handlers, everything like
that, applying the same architecture,
so you can have web
services with presentencing behind them.
So if I wanted to
do a, an Ash X
on HTTP handler on my
own and return, Jason custom,
I could do that. Or
I could use an as
a Mac slash JS and
do it that way. Yep.
You just create a where
you HTP handler would normally
inherit from HTP handler. You
just change it to MVP,
HTP handler, put the presented
binding attribute on it. And
they, Okay. So you've got,
you've got base classes for
basically everything. We do use
a controls, HTP handlers and
web services, but you don't
need to use the base
classes. A lot of times
base classes as a concept
scare people off. And particularly
there are valid reasons for
that in so many different
cases. Let's say you're building
a DotNetNuke module and you
need to use their base
class, but you want to
use our MVP architecture. Obviously
you can't use the two
based classes. So we also
have very easy support. One
line of code in your
control in the event that
just says, Hey, go and
register me. And it'll wire
it all up for you
as well. So the base
classes are just a nice
little syntax way of doing
that. Saving use a few
extra lines of code. So@theriskofinvokingthetermalt.net,
is this an alt.net friendly
web forums? It does hit
a lot of those points.
We've tried to make it
not very prescriptive in forcing
you to do things. Give
me a lot of options.
It's very pluggable. It's testable,
it's extendable. So you've, you've
put together large live websites
that are doing millions of
hits a month, and you've
got tests and continuous integration
and inversion of control and
all that stuff. So there's,
yeah, it's got little version
control support. We have already
built support for unity, which
is running on one of
the government projects. We have
support for castle, which is
running on the retail site.
It's got all unit tests
through it. We track code
coverage, all of that. And
it's a pretty active project.
Yep. So far we haven't
actually cut a version one
yet. Officially it is stable.
The only reason we haven't
dropped a V one release
is that we keep adding
features and we haven't finished
all the doco yet. So
we are pretty close to
cutting that, but we released
seven CTP so far, and
they're dropping about every two
to three weeks And give
a sense of how interested
the community is. What kind
of download you get? There's
been about 4,000 downloads so
far, I think. Yeah, fairly
consistently throughout each of the
releases, people are picking that
up and about 50% of
downloading the compiled release and
50% downloading source release, which
is pretty cool. And there's
actually also a contrary project
has already spun up for
it. One of the other
guys in the community has
spun up web forms, MVP
country. So there he's building
out things like common presenters
you use for stuff like
logging in other IOC integration
points and so on. So
there's obviously other people in
the community passionate about it
and you see this, you
know, continuing on and for,
Oh, and I think assume
things like page routes and
things like that to make
URLs friendly, support and.net for.
Yep. So we've already started
to cut builds that actually
have all the support for
things like page routes as
well, and trying to get
all those 4.0 features in
there. Nice and early. Wow.
I wish we knew someone
at Microsoft to check this
out. Maybe we do you
think? Yeah. Do you think
Damien's going to try to
get the right people looking
at this? I think if
you are on the Microsoft
Redmond campus, you would struggle
to avoid Damien in any
form of web conversation. Really
just talking about this at
every moment. Well, not just
about this, he's very passionate
about the open web and
it's good to see him
over at Microsoft. Well, this
is very, very cool. I
appreciate you sitting down and
chatting with me. I'll I'll
put links up on the
show site to make sure
that people can see this.
I want to know where
they can get the source,
where they can get the
downloads. This is just web
forms, mvp.com. That's correct. And
what is the name of
the site? The Australian site
that I can actually go
and shop and see this
live that's grays online.com. So
G R a Y S
online.com. They're very strong in
bidding and they're running this
stuff live and they're happy
with it. Yep. Fantastic. Well,
thank you so much. Take
the money for shutting out
and you should probably go
and have a nap on
the couch now. Wonderful. Thank
you, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and we'll see you again
next week.